Alright, let's do tests for pagination.
Let's go into our test folder,
make a new file, Pagination.test.js.
And let's just open our nav.test
and grab all of these, paste 'em in.
Now let's go through it.
We need enzyme, we need wait,
we need to-json, we don't need the nav,
we need pagination.
We also need the pagination query,
so let's just triple check we
had exported that.
No, we haven't.
So this query here, the PAGINATION_QUERY,
needs to be exported
as a named export.
And then we need to import that sucker
as a named import from the pagination.
We don't care about the current user.
We do need the MockedProvider.
And we don't care about the utestUtils in this one.
I believe we also need to mess with the router,
but let's hit the error that the router gives us first
so we can see it and then we'll come back
and figure out how we can mock the router.
Alright, so first thing we need to do
is to make some mocks and this pagination's
gonna test for all types of situations
when you have very few items, when you have tons of items,
when you have a couple pages, when you have lots of pages.
So we're going to make a function
that's going to create mocks called makeMocksFor
and then we'll have the length
of the items being put in,
so makeMocksFor 18 items.
And from that, we just wanna return our mocks,
which is an array.
Inside of that we'll have the request.
Query is the PAGINATION_QUERY.
And then the variables is going to be
skip zero, and first four.
And the result back from that is going to be the data.
And then the data that comes back,
if you take a look at this.
Remember we were working with that itemsConnection,
that comes back, and the we have an aggregate,
inside of that we have a count.
We need to mock that entire thing.
We'll say the itemsConnection
that has a typename of aggregate,
that'll stop it from whining about typenames.
Then we need the aggregate,
inside of that you have a typename as well,
which is a count.
Inside of that we'll have a count
and that will just be the length that's passed in.
So that is our generator for making mocks.
Now let's go ahead and start writing our tests.
So, describe, Pagination,
say it, we'll first check that it displays
a loading message.
We'll take our wrapper, we'll mount it.
Inside of that we'll have Pagination
and there is a page.
We'll try one.
Also our mock provider need to be past the mocks,
and we'll use our new handy-dandy function,
MakeMocksFor one item.
Then in here, let's just console.log,
wrapper.debug, see what we're dealing with.
Head back to our terminal.
Gonna flip back out, looks like we're getting an error.
Cannot read items connection of undefined.
So that is an error that's coming from
the actual component itself.
A way we can debug that is we'll go to our Pagination here
and it's telling us it can't read item connection
of undefined, meaning data is being passed undefined.
Let's triple check that.
Console.log data right from the component.
Yeah, see, we're getting undefined.
So I bet that we're getting an error,
and because we're not doing anything
with the error here, it's hard to know.
So let's console log the error and see.
There we go.
Network error, no more mock responses
for the query PAGINATION_QUERY.
Variables nothing, ah, I see.
We don't actually have to specify
the variables here because they are defaults.
And we are not passing any variables
in our query right here,
so it doesn't make sense to put them in our request.
I bet that will fix it.
Get rid of that error as well, save that.
Okay, that looks good.
It looks like we're loading.
Because there are no nesting mutations or queries
inside of here, we can actually
go into our pagination and put a data-test pagination on it.
And then use that to grab it and check.
So go down here, put expect, const pagination equals
wrapper.find, and we expect toJSON pagination
toMatchSnapshot.
It looks like we wrote it,
let's just double check our pagination snapshot.
It says null, that's not good.
I wonder if we are not finding anything
when we're running that.
Data-test, console.log, pagination.debug.
Not finding anything.
So let's back that up and console.log the wrapper.
Oh, obviously it doesn't, it's not finding anything
because it's in loading state.
So our expect is not snapshot yet.
We'll remove that snapshot
and in here I'll expect wrapper.text
.toContain loading.
Good, so that's all we need to do here.
We'll save that for the next one.
Next one, it renders pagination for 18 items.
And we can go ahead and take this mount,
paste it in, change makeMocksFor to 18 items.
Then we'll await wait, this is not async,
so make sure you mark it as so.
Then we'll update and let's just console.log
wrapper.debug, see what we're working with.
And it looks like one more error.
Let's see here, there we go.
Uncaught error, no router instance found.
You should only use next/router
inside the client of your app.
So this is another good example of
we are using a link and inside of our pagination
we are using the prefetch attribute on there,
and what that does, by putting prefetch,
it's going to actually try to go ahead
and start to prefetch pages,
but because we're not inside of an application instance,
it has no router.
It's very similar to the Apollo,
it has no Apollo to look for.
So what we can do is we can fake the router
just by importing it.
So, we'll go up here, import router from next/router.
And then we can mock the router portion of that.
So we'll say router.router, this'll seem a little bit weird,
but that's the actual router method on it.
And we'll set that to an object
where push just does nothing,
and prefetch does nothing.
If we cared about if these were called or not,
we could put them as mocks in the time of authoring.
But in this case we're just putting them
as functions that do nothing.
And the, when the browser looks for them,
it'll run that prefetch, nothing will happen,
but it's not gonna complain about what we have.
And that comes straight from the next documentation
on how to best do that.
So, looks like we're passing, that's good.
So what we wanna do here, now,
is check that we have the right number of pages.
So we'll expect the wrapper.find, .totalPages.
I think in here we have a total pages class, do we?
We need to wrap this in a total pages span.
So we'll grab here, say span.totalPages,
put that inside of there.
In here we'll find it, we'll grab the text from it,
and we'll expect that toEqual a string of five.
Looks like it's working.
Another thing we can do is just snapshot the entire thing,
make sure it's working.
So const nav is equal to wrapper.find a div
with the data-test set to pagination.
Let's console.log nav.debug.
Get rid of that.
Didn't find it, let's see.
Nothing, I spelled pagination wrong, of course.
There it is, and we can go ahead and snapshot that,
expect toJSON, nav, toMatch snappy.
Wrote a snapshot, let's check out the pagination.
Oh, why did I call this nav, this is not nav,
this is pagination.
We'll open up our pagination snapshot,
and it renders pagination for 18 items.
And we do see 18 items total.
And we see links to the rest of the pages, good.
That's working for us.
Now we need to work on the disabling and enabling
of the previous and next buttons.
So those are two separate tests.
We'll say it disables prev button on first page.
And let's actually go ahead and write
the rest of the tests.
It enables, or disables next button on last page.
And then the third one, it enables all buttons
on a middle page.
Okay.
Now we'll do the first one here.
We can take the whole, all three of these things here,
we'll mount it for 18 items, we'll await and update.
And then we will expect the wrapper.find,
we're gonna find the previous button, a.prev,
and we're gonna grab the prop aria disabled.
And we're gonna expect that toEqual true.
So, this button
is going to be either true or false,
and that's exactly what we're checking for here.
So, is that running?
Method props is only meant to run
on a single node, two found instead.
Ah, there's two prev buttons in the wrapper, why?
Let's console.log, wrapper.find,
a.prev,
.debug.
Oh, why does the pagination have a prev on the next button?
There we go, this should say next.
And you see that now our snapshot
for the other ones changed.
So we'll accept those.
And everything is working,
so I'm gonna get rid of that debug.
We do hafta check that the a.next is equal to false,
because, when we're on the first page,
the next page works.
So those are all running.
And now you can take all of this
and we'll go to the next test and paste it in.
Except that we're going to make this page five,
this is gonna be the last page.
And then we're going to switch these around
so that when we're on the last page
the previous page is not disabled and the opposite here.
Those are all passing.
And then, finally, we're going to run one.
Go ahead and copy, paste,
and we're going to just put ourselves
in the middle, maybe on page three,
and they should both be set to true.
Nope, they should both be set to false,
'cause they both aren't disabled.
Looking good.
One other thing you could do there,
instead of writing three separate tests,
what you could do is you could programmatically
update the prop of this pagination component
from one to five to three,
and then run all of these expects.
I prefer to have them as separate tests
just so I know exactly what's going on.
You're gonna get better fails there.
But you could do that as well,
'cause, if you did it all in one test and it failed,
you would have to dig in and figure out
why it failed.
When, in this case, it's very clear
which part of it has failed.
So, that is all the tests for our pagination.
I think we're pretty good at writing
all of these mocks.
Let's move into writing some mutation mocks.